The President:
Hi everybody.
In my State of the Union
Address,
I said that the best measure of
opportunity is access
to a good job.
And after the worst
recession of our
lifetimes, our businesses
have created eight
and a half million new jobs
in the last four years.
But we need to do more to
make America a magnet
for good jobs for the future.
And in this year of
action, where Congress
won't do that, I will do
whatever
I can to expand opportunity for
more Americans.
This week, I took two
actions to attract
new jobs to America - jobs in
American manufacturing,
and jobs rebuilding
America's infrastructure.
Here's why this
is important.
In the 2000s alone, we
lost more than one-third
of all American
manufacturing jobs.
One in three.
And when the housing
bubble burst,
workers in the construction
industry were hit harder
than just about anybody.
The good news is, today,
our manufacturers have
added more than 620,000
jobs
over the last four years - the
first sustained growth
in manufacturing jobs
since the 1990s.
Still, the economy
has changed.
If we want to attract more
good manufacturing jobs
to America, we've got to make
sure we're on the cutting
edge of new manufacturing
technologies and techniques.
And in today's global
economy,
first-class jobs gravitate to
first-class infrastructure.
That's why, on Tuesday, I
launched two new high-tech
manufacturing hubs -
places where businesses
and universities
will partner
to turn groundbreaking research
into real-world
goods Made in America.
So far, we've launched
four of these hubs, where
our workers can master 3-D
printing, energy-efficient
electronics, lightweight
metals,
and digital manufacturing - all
technologies
that can help ensure a steady
stream of good jobs well
into the 21st century.
Then on Wednesday, I
launched a new competition
to build 21st century
infrastructure --
roads and bridges, mass transit,
more efficient ports,
and faster passenger rail.
Rebuilding America
won't just attract new
businesses; it will create
good construction jobs
that can't be
shipped overseas.
Of course, Congress could
make an even bigger
difference in both areas.
Thanks to the leadership
of a bipartisan group
of lawmakers, there's a bill
in Congress right
now that would create an entire
network of high-tech
manufacturing hubs all
across the country.
And next week, I'll send
Congress a budget that
will rebuild our
transportation systems
and support millions
of jobs nationwide.
There's a lot we can
do if we work together.
And while Congress decides
what it's going to do,
I'm going to keep doing
everything in my power
to rebuild an economy where
everyone who works hard
has the chance to get
ahead --
where we're restoring our founding
vision of opportunity for all.
Thanks, everybody, and
have a great weekend.